Requirements for Domains (#101)
ietf-wg-rpp/rpp-requirements: src/draft-ietf-rpp-requirements.md

[//]: # (Editor note: use Dx.x for Domains)

> **D1.1** RPP MUST map the EPP domain attribute model defined in the EPP RFCs to the generic RPP data model.

Reviewer: Problematic about this requirement is the fact, that EPP does not define one data model, but several - different for requests and responses, which by conventions share some of the same attributes.

I propose to be specific here and refer to <domain:infData xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0"> (reading) and <domain:create xmlns:domain="urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:domain-1.0"> (writing). 

Instead of "map" I would rather use "MUST define data model for domain name equivalent to "...

Author: 5730+5731+extensions = domain data model. i think we can capture all of it by just referring to EPP RFCs
but we can also refer to xml namespaces if you like.

Reviewer: derive from 3.4.9 [1] of rfc3375?
```suggestion
**D1.1** The RPP domain object data model MUST include, at a minimum the attributes defined in RFC5731: the fully qualified domain name, repository object identifier, object status, the current sponsoring client identifier, creating registrar client ID, creation timestamp, last update client ID, last update timestamp, expiration timestamp, last transfer timestamp, authorization information, name servers, the registrant, and other associated contacts.
```

**D1.2** RPP MUST only accept valid domain names, which MUST be valid FQDNs.

**D1.3** RPP MUST support internationalized domain names (IDN) and accept A-labels and U-labels, also know as IDNA2008 and defined in [@!RFC5890].

> **D1.4** RPP MUST compare domain names case-insensitively per DNS rules. Servers SHOULD canonicalise for storage and representation consistently, the server canonicalisation rules SHOULD be disclosed in the discovery document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**D1.4** RPP MUST treat domain names case-insensitively in requests and responses by both clients and servers. 
```

**D1.5** RPP MUST support domains that have zero or more linked hosts.

**D1.6** RPP MUST support domains that have linkage to registrant, administrative, technical, and (optionally) billing contacts. In thin registries, only identifiers MAY be stored; in thick registries, contact data MAY be included per (privacy) policy.

**D1.7** RPP domain objects MUST support EPP password-based Authorisation Information (authInfo) for transfer operations (see R8.5).

> **D1.8** RPP MUST provide functional equivalents for EPP domain status values (e.g., ok, inactive, client/server*Prohibited, pending*). and define their mapping to RPP responses and HTTP status codes.

Author: need to escape the *, will do.

**D1.9** RPP MUST include an expiry timestamp for domains; server behaviour at and after expiry (auto‑renew, redemption) MUST be specified and discoverable.

**D1.10** RPP MUST enforce referential integrity. the parent domain name for a subordinate host object MUST not be deleted. RPP MUST return a conflict error when deletion is disallowed and the domain representation MAY include a “linked-by” counter attribute.

> **D1.11** RPP domain object validation failures MUST be reported with problem details ([@!RFC7807]) including JSON Pointers to offending fields.

Reviewer: Move up

### Operations

> **D2.1** The RPP domain object type is mapped to the EPP equivalent and MUST support all operations (commands) defined for the domain object in [@!RFC5731].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**D2.1** RPP MUST provide operations to check, create, read, update, transfer, renew and delete domain name objects as defined in [@!RFC5731].
```
